[New Product] Added MX Linux (#1750)
captn3m0/endoflife.date: products/mxlinux.md

---
permalink: /mxlinux
alternate_urls:

> -   /mx_linux

Reviewer: A few more alternate URLs:

```suggestion
-   /mx_linux
-   /mx-linux
-   /mx
```

title: MX Linux
category: os
releasePolicyLink: https://mxlinux.org/release-cycle/
iconSlug: mxlinux
activeSupportColumn: true
versionCommand: cat /etc/os-release
releaseColumn: false
releaseDateColumn: true
realseLabel: "__RELEASE_CYCLE__ (__CODENAME__)"
releasePolicyLink: https://mxlinux.org/release-cycle/
purls:
-   purl: pkg:os/mxlinux
auto:

> -   distrowatch: devuan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   distrowatch: mxlinux
```

>     regex: '^Distribution Release: MX Linux (?P<major>\d)\.(?P<minor>\d)$'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    regex: '^Distribution Release: MX Linux (?P<major>\d+)(?:\.(?P<minor>\d+))?(?:\.(?P<patch>\d+))?'
```

- The minor part is optional
- Both major/minor/patch can be multiple digits
- There can be patch versions (not listed on DW yet)

I used this to validate the regex: https://regex101.com/r/VjVvlu/1

Got the list of releases from the [DW page](https://distrowatch.com/index.php?distribution=mx) with the following in the web console:

`copy(Array.from(document.querySelectorAll('td.NewsHeadline')).map((x)=>{return x.innerText}))`

It still misses the KDE 19.2 release, but that's okay since we can only track 19.2 once anyway.

releases:
-   releaseCycle: "21"
    codename: "Wildflower"
    releaseDate: 2021-10-21

>     latest: "21.2.1"

Reviewer: This is missing on the Distrowatch page, and our automation will overwrite this with `12.2`. We can either keep updates disabled, or get it corrected at distrowatch.

    releaseDate: 2018-12-20
    latest: "18.3"
    latestRelaseDate: 2019-05-26
    support: 2020-06-05
    eol: 2022-06-30
    link: https://mxlinux.org/blog/mx-18-3-refreshed-isos-now-available/
-   releaseCycle: "17"
    releaseDate: 2017-12-15
    latest: "17.1"
    latestRelaseDate: 2018-03-14
    support: 2020-06-05
    eol: 2022-06-30
    link: https://mxlinux.org/blog/mx-17-1-released/
-   releaseCycle: "16"
    codename: "Metamorphosis"
    releaseDate: 2016-12-14
    latest: "16.1"
    latestRelaseDate: 2017-06-08
    support: 2018-06-23
    eol: 2020-06-30
    link: https://mxlinux.org/blog/mx-16-1-now-available/
-   releaseCycle: "15"
    codename: "Fusion"
    releaseDate: 2015-12-24
    latest: "15"
    latestRelaseDate: 2015-12-24
    support: 2018-06-23
    eol: 2020-06-30
    link: https://web.archive.org/web/20160105095436/http://antix.mepis.org/index.php?title=Main_Page
-   releaseCycle: "14"
    codename: "Symbiosis"
    releaseDate: 2014-03-24
    latest: "14.4"
    latestRelaseDate: 2015-03-23
    support: 2016-06-04
    eol: 2018-05-31
    link: https://web.archive.org/web/20150402080108/http://antix.mepis.org/index.php?title=Main_Page

---

> > [MX Linux](https://mxlinux.org/) is a desktop-oriented GNU/Linux distribution based on Debian's stable branch releases.  Its name is sourced from the first letter of MEPIS and last letter of antiX, two communities that collaborate on development.  MX Linux uses the XFCE desktop environment by default but also offers releases defaulting to KDE Plasma and Fluxbox desktops to produce "a midweight operating system designed to combine an elegant and efficient desktop with simple configuration, high stability, solid performance and medium-sized footprint."

Reviewer: Trimmed this a bit to focus only on the relevant bits:

```suggestion
> [MX Linux](https://mxlinux.org/) is a desktop-oriented GNU/Linux distribution based on Debian's stable branch releases. MX Linux uses the [XFCE](https://xfce.org/) by default and aims for "an elegant and efficient desktop with simple configuration, high stability, solid performance and medium-sized footprint."
```

> There are several releases of MX Linux supported concurrently.  These typically follow Debian's periods of active development and extended, long-term support, which provides security patches to a limited set of packages.  Often this equates to ~2 years of active support and 2 years of long-term security patch support. (MX Linux releases follow and correspond to Debian stable's major and point releases.)[https://mxlinux.org/release-cycle/]

Reviewer: The `releasePolicyLink` is same, so doesn't need to be added again. Removed a comma for clarity

```suggestion
There are several releases of MX Linux supported concurrently.  These typically follow Debian's periods of active development and extended long-term support, which provides security patches to a limited set of packages.  Often this equates to ~2 years of active support and 2 years of long-term security patch support.
```

> While MX Linux includes systemd installed by default, the traditional SysVinit is configured to serve as the init daemon.  This coexistence is fostered by the "systemd-shim" package, which was formerly developed by Debian that the MX developers now maintain.  MX offers releases supporting x86 32-bit PAE (i686-compatible) processors, x86 64-bit processors, and the Raspberry Pi's 32-bit armhf architecture.  Like [antiX](https://antixlinux.com) MX Linux features many custom-developed tools.  These assist with tasks such as package management, bootloader configuration, and persistent bootable media creation making MX Linux a great choice for both live boot and disk installations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MX offers releases supporting x86 32-bit PAE (i686-compatible) processors, x86 64-bit processors, and the Raspberry Pi's 32-bit armhf architecture.
```

Stick to talking points about support/releases etc. Tooling and differentiation (such as the systemd bits) are best handled elsewhere. We can link to those if they are relevant to support, but I don't think it matters here.
